yeah regret mine don't wear [__] nice
trainers when it's raining I'm ready to
squat so what I'm gonna do
hey YouTube I'm here with my boy sunny
Webster so we created a video some time
ago and is pretty popular
if you don't know son is a Olympic level
weight lifts up and other power lifts us
so we've got two completely different
styles of squats sometimes I like to
utilize the same sports that Sonny uses
so like my right front squats and
weightlifting shoes today I'm not going
to do that today I'm going to go back to
my powerlifting style of squat so I've
got my flat-soled shoes I'm gonna it's
been months since I've wrapped my knee
so today's my reintroduction to knee
wraps and you're gonna see the style of
spot that I use and it's great that we
have sunny heat today because he's
squatting as well but it's going to be
completely different and halogen socks
asked to grasp it's a another great way
of saying deep deep deep squats so the
depth of my support is powerlifting
depth which is where the crease of the
hip needs to go below the top of the
knee there's no actual requirement for
weight lifters to hit any depth in
particular but it's just an advantage to
go as deep as possible so that I don't
have to throw the bar is high but he's
going to talk more about that I'm gonna
make sport why he is today and obviously
the lower you can get in the catch of a
front squat means you have to pull the
bar so high so I'll be going too deep
today which is which is an interesting
thing because he's a very technical
white obtained he's very fast and I've
seen weightlifters that can squat more
than him
but he can claim more than them because
he's just got the technique of throwing
his body I'm a weight weightlifter
well cos you know relativity relative to
the highest level in the world we're
talking about from a technique
perspective as I said he can clean and
snatch more whites enough than me and I
can I can front squat more than him but
there's no way I can I did a 255
kilogram front squat um and I think my
best clay I've never really been taught
I think my best kleeneze around 140
kilograms you know like I just throwing
myself under the bar aggressively and UN
deep with that yeah I can't squat deep
it's the front rack but it's the speed
as well and how you aggressively throw
your body hundred I don't know maybe
maybe for my audience on how you throw
yourself so aggressively under the bar
today we'll see yeah the key thing for
speed and leave the bar in the clean is
actually relaxed in the upper body a lot
of people think when they're doing a
clean or running at the barn the
shoulders that they need to pull with
the upper body
the minute you start pulling with the
upper body you put in the weight back
through the floor and your feet won't
want to move which actually slows down
the process if you move and underneath
the bar so I'm always focusing whenever
I'm doing it clean is that in the
acceleration come from the legs and then
I'm dropping as the bar still going up
that's how you get the speed into the
bar either gonna be Queens flow yeah I
do there you go you'll see well st. will
sit maybe just for the video yeah okay
so now I'm before we do anything else
I'm gonna do some warmups
I'm 38 sunny how old are you 26 so he's
warm he woke up with me it's not that
easy especially you know we're
approaching winter in Sydney it's a
little bit colder for me so I like to be
really warm before I start my session
and I'm gonna throw you I'm gonna take
you guys through some of my favorite
activations that I've learned from one
of the best rehabilitation specialists
in the business Andrew Luck he's taught
me a bunch of different activations the
first one is going to be a core
activation this isn't actually his this
came from Professor stuart mcgill which
is one of the best spine researchers in
the world it's just a way to switch on
my core because i'm going to be loading
with heavy weights today so we'll do a
core activation then after that I'm
gonna do a glute activation and then
after that
something that you're going to notice
about me that sunny said I can't get in
that clean position the front right
position for a front squat as I'm
getting bigger and stronger in my
shoulders I'm getting less and less
mobile so it's pretty hard for me to get
under a barbell for a low bar squat so
Andrews prescribed some great new
shoulder mobility exercises not
stretches mobilizations to help me warm
up my shoulders and prime them to get
under the bus so this is going to be
maybe about the tenth the next ten
fifteen minutes and it's a great warm-up
for anyone at home who wants to do some
squats let me tell you so we're going to
do this now so it's going to be caught
then glutes then shoulders check it out
for anyone at home great warmup it's
about ten minutes of your time and it's
going to make you a lot more able to
move well on your very first rep a lot
of the times I used to come into the
barbell and my first warm-up used to be
of just a barbell squat and I'd be cold
and sore and not moving nicely so I
don't like that I want to get the very
first rep under a barbell I want it to
move perfectly so warm-up time let's do
it
so big three I'll tell you what it is
this is Professor Shulman guild put half
a billion dollars worth of research into
this activation exercise basically it's
a core routine to switch on the core
muscles and they say that following from
this movement 1 to 3 hours afterwards
your core is engaged that's how long my
sessions going to be it's going to be
you know probably about 2 hours so this
is going to ensure that my core muscles
are on so when I start loading it with
the squat and the same rule applies for
all of my leg my glute activations it's
going to ensure that my glutes are
switched on by the time I start loading
it so starting big 3 with bird dogs
seems like really fluffy exercises but
it's a warm-up think of it like that
ok so 10
this hole is yep rub before you reach my
arm forward to that wall reach one leg
back to that back wall so this was
raising the armature which were reaching
out for corner to remember back with you
later
so that's some nice and easy now we're
going to place 30 seconds here so this
is a rolling plank so we start on the
front and then we go to side side ten
seconds
10 seconds to go
okay so I play so all we're looking for
here is straight swine so don't know sag
and the hips keep the hips up so this
one 15 seconds on each side this is a
little bit weaker so this is the
internal external obliques ql these are
weaker than the six-pack muscles so we
[Music]
mix curl ups so the way we do the curl
ups is slightly different so one leg out
so go into 10 5 us are both feet on the
ground but one leg straight out and one
foot closer to bump so this keeps the
pelvis neutral fingertips on the top of
the ABS to feel a trace elbows up chin
to chest up hold and drop that was up
shoot the chest are called and drop five
like that five now swapping a you know
exhale the breath the breath it's not as
important I breathe like a fat chick so
don't copy me with my breathing I snore
while I'm awake okay so there's 10 so
that's caught active next we're gonna do
glutes so this is this is Andrew locks
special so this is class real [__]
sad why we do this bottom leg strength
top foot behind the ball ankle now point
your junk towards the ground good and
open 25 reps
the glutes roll is abduction and
external rotation that's what we're
getting with this the glutes role is
also extension we're not getting
extension yet we will know because it's
such a short quick movement we do high
reps at 25 reps over so bottom leg
straight top foot behind the bottom
ankle point the junk to the ground
a lot of people do their clams side on
like this and we're not letting gravity
help us target these muscles on the side
which is glute mingoo meat so to help
get gravity to help us point the junk to
the ground and open the hips like this
so 25 reps this is really easy so for
most people don't expect this to make
you strong it's an activation it's a
warm-up it's not making me strong well
it's just the next stuff with the
barbell is what's going to make that
stronger okay next this is where we do
the extension component we do 10 on each
side so single legged glute bridges
exactly so that the tips the cues to
look for here is going to have the foot
too closer to the buck when the foot is
too close to the button that's even use
too much quads if it's too far away from
the butt it's going to be too much
hamstring so it's pretty hard to some
people it's going to be high
so feeling in the glutes so you want to
look for about 90 degrees at the knee
I'm probably a little bit off so it
doesn't matter too much doesn't have to
be exactly 90 but you know if you have
to feel it in the back so this is hip
joint extension it is it's a it's a
trick that I said learn about all the
lifters that have no injuries they do
their warmups
they do their wall much okay so for you
Sonny I don't think you need to do the
shoulder drill you know doing the backs
like me I'm going to show you what
Andrew taught me so it's basically the
first step you'll probably have a laugh
at this but a lot of big guys with poor
shoulder mobility can't even put their
hands behind their heads like this so
the first step is just to have them
ability to do this when I when he gave
me this I thought damn he's going to
expose me and I'm gonna be one of those
immobile people that doesn't have the
mobility to achieve this position but I
I can't again it's not a strengthening
exercise you're just switching on all of
the muscles of the back so next we add
resistance so it's the same thing but
I'm gonna put this on my elbow
so that I've got resistance and I'm
gonna do the same thing ten reps easy
not because 10 is better than 11 or 9
it's a suck in Canada chance keep it
simple is this guy for real yeah I am my
shoulder mobility sucks so that's it so
that's my warmup how long did that take
just under 10 minutes so now now I like
to just warm up the actual movement
sometimes that's funny
before I swap with an empty bar I like
to squat without an empty bar so the
first thing that I do is I call this
bend overs so I'm not just squatting I'm
bending over and touching the floor so
in addition to warming up my quads and
legs which I'm going to be using for my
squats I'm also putting a bunch of blood
in my back so the way that I squad it's
a very posterior chain dominant move hip
dominant style squats so on a really
warm up not just my legs not just my
glutes not just my back my whole body
okay so just a first set with an empty
bar and of course that was after all of
my warmups
and that felt really good coming under
the bar and grabbing the bar a lot of
people say why are you holding it so why
my shoulder mobility really really sucks
and even usually when I don't do that
drill with my shoulders if it even hurts
to grab the bar and put it on my back in
the low bar position so just then that's
the first time I've done those
activations that ng prescribed and and
they're here for good now
that really felt nice so yeah so that's
25 kilogram bar 2 and 1/2 kilogram clips
on each side so that's 30 kilograms was
that start right of course that's very
light and now the first plate 25 on each
side and then I'm going to go in smaller
jumps so this is yes so this is going to
be 80 kilograms and then after that I'll
probably I don't know I'll probably go
up in 20 to 25 kilogram jumps after that
a rule that I have is that you need to
earn the right to add weight to the bar
so just then I squatted the empty bar
actually I did two sets of aware-lea
captured one of them on camera these two
sets of that a lot of the times I must
do five sets of the empty bar you need
to earn the right to add weight to the
bar so what does that mean if it doesn't
look good if it doesn't feel good if
something just doesn't feel right I have
to do it again so just saying the fact
that I did all my activations I came
under the bar nice and warm I only had
to do two sets of that now it's 80
kilograms same rules apply I'll do a set
of this if it doesn't feel amazing I'll
do another set of it if it feels easy
like it should
I'll go up so hopefully I only have to
do one set but it's always different
unfortunately if your goal is to get
strong it takes a long time to complete
your session I don't know how long we've
been going for so far it's been at least
half an hour
and we're still warming up and then when
I get to my top set so I'm gonna be
taking eight minutes between a minutes
rest between sets
so my session is going to take me two
hours so something that's good to
understand is I have the time this is my
job so I have the time to allocate to
training like this and a lot of people
don't and I completely respect that it
doesn't have to be your goal to be
really really really strong it's just
mine and that's because it's my career
as well so it makes sense that I
allocate this type of time but a lot of
people can only put an hour towards
their training and if that's the case
you know resting and doing all that for
this long probably isn't the way that
I'd recommend that you train but I also
don't recommend that you have a goal to
kind of be the strongest person in the
world if you have other commitments in
your life it's pretty hard thing to
juggle this is my belt and I don't
actually need the belt for this like I
can support a lot heavier without it but
what I'm warming up with equipment I
like to feel it so this is on a really
loose setting it's actually a looser
belt I've got another title belt that I
use it's a looser belt on a loose
setting just so that I can get used to
all the techniques of the equipment I'm
gonna start wrapping my knees early as
well but it's a bit like for my knees
but the next set I probably
I just squatted 310 kilograms
paused a couple of weeks ago with
sleeves so I don't need rappers to squat
this way but again it's been months
since I've used knee wraps so check out
I've got this is my stiff rap that's one
of the knees on my top set it's really
strong it's really uncomfortable but it
bounces me up this is really soft really
comfortable to warm up rap watch how
softly I'm going to put it on
that's five revolutions five revolutions
of a really soft round it's more about
the field it's a different technique
when you use knee wraps the knee wrap
goes really tight around the knee joint
which stops the knee from bending so
therefore it acts as a very strong knee
joint extensors what are the muscles
that extend the knee quads so therefore
it acts as a really strong quadricep
so when you understand that and then you
understand how someone squats when
they've got really strong quads that's
how you want to do it so a really strong
quadriceps water is typically more
upright so then I can use this front
quad someone with the really strong back
would bend over a lot now bend over at
the hip slot to use they're really
strong hips so if I've got the advantage
of having really really really strong
quads now how do I want to squat to use
these you want to be upright so check
out
mm I had to 16 my mind to like maybe
pump out a set of ten yeah well I'd only
go for low Gretchen maybe hey I'm gonna
teach myself okay
that's the first time I've had raps on
in months I would say a March so that
the start of March was when I last wore
raps why don't we now much ever made
June so almost three months what's that
now it is three months because the start
of June yes so just over March so I
swatted my last what session with raps
was a 360 double when I came back from
the animals where half thought be onsen
one the Arnold stromwell Classic in Ohio
then I came back that weekend so that
was on the 8th of March and I came back
that weekend a week after that and
squatted 360 kilograms for a double
which was really hard and really ugly
but I did it and then our competent
elementary I was speaking for a
competition and our competition got
called off because of covert and so I
didn't squad anymore took the wraps off
and I started working on other stuff so
it's been a while since I've gone really
heavy like that but anyway that was my
first time I used wraps in three months
and that felt delicious hey sunny come
and show me look at this Oh big Friday
supplies all right I love it
so Sonny's a bit of a fashionista he's
good he's owned now clothing label
apparel brand that's sick coming slowly
the way that I like to do it is to go
tighter and tighter every time my top
set like in competition I use these and
I get 10 revolutions that's really tight
I'm probably not going to go that tight
today so something that's important to
know for people that are learning how to
use knee wraps it's just like learning
how to drive a car the first car that
you learn in usually wouldn't be a
Lamborghini or an f1 racecar it would be
something a lot slower than that you
don't need that type of performance when
you're learning how to drive same with
me right
same with equipment for training you
don't need the most aggressive of the
tightest the biggest carryover equipment
when you're learning how to do it so so
even though I've got good experience in
using raps it's been 3 months and I have
to relearn how to do it so that's five
revolutions that's what I had on the
last set now I'm gonna do 6 so I just
got about one revolution really simple
so this type of knee wrap there's
nothing to it I start under the patella
and I wrap with neat even so I'll go
half an inch up it's our one inch up
every time every revolution six
revolutions so this one there's no
crossing there's just five up and then
one across the center really simple
they're up when I get those wraps on I
go a little bit more technical than that
but it's a really nice comfortable wrap
see how I'm bending my knees now you
can't really do that with the really
tight ones so
okay all right good
under the children
it feels so nice let me tell you I used
to that what I'm using these things I
have to use my own muscles absolutely
it's a spot I'm getting spotted but my
my training partners one on HD on Benny
going on 100 kilos on the bar 100 kilos
plan is today gonna go up to 205 front
squat would be nice but from the first
two sets I've done I think 180 will be
hard but that's not feeling good but
check it out I never judge the session
first resets
one hundred and fifty five kilograms
next so we are started at an alien we've
got twenty five kilogram jumps and I'm
going to go tighter again this time I'm
going to try different wrap for up x
over the patella and one directly around
so that's going to be seven revolutions
now
in revolutions for the knees maybe nine
or oh nine ten tens hard for me to rap
gentleman like I have to I have to build
the tolerance in my hands this takes
like grip strength as well and grip
endurance so my hand so it's like this
imagine going into a big set and your
hands are [__]
it's like you need to grab the bar you
know and so that's what happens as well
I lose the endurance in my hands
and coming into a set so like right now
they're fine because I'm not wrapping
them that tight but I get to a point
where my hands are fatigued
I'm puffed out from the wrapping it so
hard and it's like I need a couple of
minutes but I don't have a couple of
minutes because I'm cutting circulation
in my legs so I got to go before I lose
my legs so the next thing I did I went
on a tight knot on my belt as well so
seven revolutions underneath with
softwraps singles
I keep what happens to smile laughter
and I'll do a set that's really easy
those near raps aren't like the hard
part about splitting with Nia raps is
precision so what I'm going for is
aiming to get right in the hole here
like the perfect depth and then but
little bounce at the end so I'm using a
lot of energy
controlling it controlling it and then
and then I do nothing and they're just
it just stands up for me for up x over
the patella and then two over so that's
eight revolutions now like when I get
used to this it gives me 50 kilograms so
what were you going for today like over
200 kilo front squat imagine I said
would you like how would you like if we
could do 250 today you know that's how
it feels it's like yeah yeah
that one fell forward a little bit so
it's the rats I probably get someone to
help me with the rack next there that
was a little bit of line and a little
bit forward just so on this way it's
fine
looks easy looks like there's no problem
but that's my instant feedback that I
was offline and if I try and do that
with a heavy weight you won't come up so
that's Bob Huff is the concern so the
next set like that came forward by this
much that's all
and it clipped the rack barely clipped
the rabbit so there's no big deal really
but if I come forward by this much with
my working set today I might not get the
Ripper am i working set and I have the
number 260 260 kilograms in my mind
today so we're now 180 next set 25 to 30
to 55 oh my god I'm gonna use different
wraps now now I'm gonna take a slightly
bigger jump I'll take a 30 kilo jump for
the next step so that
I can take three more jumps up to ten to
thirty five to see
heavy-duty wraps is my favorite one so
this is the Lillibridge wraps made by
pioneers same place that made my belt
pioneer so general leather craft pioneer
it's the same company
these ones there's actually stiffer you
can get stiffer than these but stiffer
isn't always better when we're talking
about knee wraps that is but for the
purpose of this it's comfort as well
which sometimes if you think you know
wrap it on as tight as you can so you
can get the most out of it if it's too
uncomfortable and too painful it
interferes
so that's seven revolutions the said
before was eight revolutions but it was
a soft Ernie rap so this 7 on the heavy
duty near app is going to be stronger
than eight on the software rap
[Music]
now here's the thing Sonny just asked me
if I'm gonna do back down sin from that
one I'm not gonna I'm gonna train
another session later on in the day
we've got a few meetings and this is
unfortunately how I have to schedule my
sessions because that just took me an
hour and a half to do one set and then
the type of work that I'd like to do now
is that was a hip dominant movement
using me raps takes a lot of quads out
of it but I need my quads because I got
the knee wraps acting as quads so the
muscles that I'm really working is my
posterior check my hip extensors so the
way that I structure my programming is I
do my main work which is my priority for
the session then my secondary exercise I
can sit up what's the range of motion
what's the joint angles what's the
muscles that I'm neglected in my main
work so let's answer for this
what other muscles that I've neglected
it we just said a low-pass squat is hip
dominant adding me raps is more hip
dominant takes chords out of it so what
have I neglected quads so therefore my
supplementary exercises which I could do
now but I'll tell you why I'm not gonna
do now I could do now what I'm gonna do
this afternoon it's going to be
something that allows me to target my
quads what's one of my favorite
exercises to achieve that something like
what Sonny's day
hello well he just once for all of us in
socks ah you know look at the size of
his legs they're huge
he's a thank you I got so I'm I'm 20
kilograms bigger than him but he's quads
are bigger than mine how does that work
because he's a hundred and and the body
position that I'm able to get myself in
allows better shape to have your load
than one he's do so squats nice Sammy
but his goal is clean jerk for me my
goal is squat that's what I'm being
graded on in my competition so I need to
be good at that one of us what mentors
only Lillibridge senior taught me if you
can get your ears to contract and help
you lift that way that's what you're
gonna do so obviously Mayans didn't help
me then but what I tell you that I did
use a lot of hips adapters back
definitely use the bit of quads but not
as much as what he needs for his
Francois he's is well with a with a with
an ass like that you can't deny that
he's getting some solid glute work with
all of these sport variations as well
but yeah that's the quad dominant
movement and that's something that I
would like to get in this afternoon now
back to why I'm not doing it now I've
got a few choices train keep doing my
back down work and then go to my meeting
or eight that's my highest priority so
equally as important as your work is
your recovery and people always say
what's your favorite methods of
recovering well eating sleeping and
hydration
there are what you think about squatting
every single day and exactly that reason
that you can't why can't squat every day
yeah well the people that do and that's
what I say it's like if you enjoy yeah
I'll say go for it but don't go heavy
like this every day no way the recovery
is equally is important otherwise I
would train all day all night and I
wouldn't go to bed because I want to be
that good but that's how it works
recovery recovery recovery so on that
note I'm gonna go on it what are you
doing he's gonna eat with me so you know
again for those out there that look at
strong guys on the internet and say you
know that's a golf for mine I call of my
one day to have a check that level of
strength understand that it's it's also
our job Sony's also an online coach he
specializes in coaching weightlifters of
course CrossFitters used the weight
lifting techniques as well so a lot of
these client bases CrossFit athletes
weight lifters so that's what he does
for a living so this is the type of work
that he does and so he's able to
allocate this amount of hours into his
training because it's like spending the
time at university but our University is
under the barbell so for those out there
that don't have the time don't beat
yourself up over it you just got to
prioritize what's important to your life
if you've got other priorities in your
life it doesn't make you a bad person
that lifting weights isn't your number
one priority but for us it is easy to
prioritize so on that note its food time
we're both gonna go on eat and then I'm
going to train here in the afternoon
he'll probably go to another gym
he's welcome to come back here any time
but I'm gonna do my quad dominance what
variation this afternoon but sunny
Webster thank you for joining us on our
YouTube video it's been a while it's
been months since we've been able to
create some content so it's always great
to have one of the world's best weight
lifters join me for these sessions and
where can we find you so that's some on
Instagram Instagram Facebook and then of
course start to my email list which
you'll find by the link in my Instagram
and then I'm sure Sonny will be back for
more of these sessions click whites
subscribe because they comments
underneath throw some questions in if
you want to see us talk about or train a
certain way on our next session no I
don't think I'll do naked people don't
like the look of me naked I thought that
they did but they don't yeah yeah well
anyway I will say we'll save that for a
different day but thanks for coming on
thank you guys hope you enjoyed it see
you next time